README.rst, before:

ordo_electro
==============================

Electronic and Social Media Tools for the Ordo


LICENSE: BSD

Settings
------------

ordo_electro relies extensively on environment settings which **will not work with Apache/mod_wsgi setups**. It has been deployed successfully with both Gunicorn/Nginx and even uWSGI/Nginx.

For configuration purposes, the following table maps the 'ordo_electro' environment variables to their Django setting:

======================================= =========================== ============================================== ===========================================
Environment Variable                    Django Setting              Development Default                            Production Default
======================================= =========================== ============================================== ===========================================
DJANGO_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID                AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID           n/a                                            raises error
DJANGO_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY            AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY       n/a                                            raises error
DJANGO_AWS_STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME          AWS_STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME     n/a                                            raises error
DJANGO_CACHES                           CACHES                      locmem                                         memcached
DJANGO_DATABASES                        DATABASES                   See code                                       See code
DJANGO_DEBUG                            DEBUG                       True                                           False
DJANGO_EMAIL_BACKEND                    EMAIL_BACKEND               django.core.mail.backends.console.EmailBackend django.core.mail.backends.smtp.EmailBackend
DJANGO_SECRET_KEY                       SECRET_KEY                  CHANGEME!!!                                    raises error
DJANGO_SECURE_BROWSER_XSS_FILTER        SECURE_BROWSER_XSS_FILTER   n/a                                            True
DJANGO_SECURE_SSL_REDIRECT              SECURE_SSL_REDIRECT         n/a                                            True
DJANGO_SECURE_CONTENT_TYPE_NOSNIFF      SECURE_CONTENT_TYPE_NOSNIFF n/a                                            True
DJANGO_SECURE_FRAME_DENY                SECURE_FRAME_DENY           n/a                                            True
DJANGO_SECURE_HSTS_INCLUDE_SUBDOMAINS   HSTS_INCLUDE_SUBDOMAINS     n/a                                            True
DJANGO_SESSION_COOKIE_HTTPONLY          SESSION_COOKIE_HTTPONLY     n/a                                            True
DJANGO_SESSION_COOKIE_SECURE            SESSION_COOKIE_SECURE       n/a                                            False
======================================= =========================== ============================================== ===========================================

* TODO: Add vendor-added settings in another table

Getting up and running
----------------------

The steps below will get you up and running with a local development environment. We assume you have the following installed:

* pip
* virtualenv
* PostgreSQL
* Memcache
* RabbitMQ
* redis 

Install memcache if you don't have it

	brew install libmemcached
	brew install httpie # also useful
	brew install rabbitmq # for celery 
	brew install redis # for caching 

I'm using mysql so make sure that you have that running as well. Install it with brew. 

http://blog.joefallon.net/2013/10/install-mysql-on-mac-osx-using-homebrew/

Make sure if you install RabbitMQ with homebrew that you set up the path variables. It is installed in sbin.

https://www.rabbitmq.com/install-homebrew.html

start up RabbitMQ server (mac)

	rabbitmq-server

start the redis server 

	redis-server

start mysql and add the database

	mysql.server start

	CREATE DATABASE ordo_electro

Clone the repo

	mkvirtualenv oe
	git clone https://github.com/solvire/ordo_electro.git
	cd ordo_electro/

Don't start activating things until you have a virtualenv set up. mkvirtualenv should have activated you already.

Update your config to point to the right database:

	vim ordo_electro/config/common.py
	
You may use your own DB settings based on what you will be using. Assumed mysql local root:''

The STATIC_ROOT variables are already set so run: 
	
	python ordo_electro/manage.py collectstatic

Make sure to add your keys for the various apps in:

	/Users/USERNAME/.ordo_electro/settings.ini

	[secrets]
	TWITTER_KEY: abasdflkj
	TWITTER_SECRET: 409avnlkadlfkk
	
Note: these will change and be moved to the DB at some point. 


First make sure to create and activate a virtualenv_, then open a terminal at the project root and install the requirements for local development::

    $ pip install -r requirements/local.txt

.. _virtualenv: http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/

Set up the migrations:

	python ordo_electro/manage.py makemigrations
	python ordo_electro/manage.py migrate

You can now run the ``runserver_plus`` command::

    $ python ordo_electro/manage.py runserver_plus
    
You may check the app from the browser or by CLI

	http://127.0.0.1:8000/
	
	http -a admin:admin http://127.0.0.1:8000/users/
	
	

The base app will run but you'll need to carry out a few steps to make the sign-up and login forms work. These are currently detailed in `issue #39`_.

.. _issue #39: https://github.com/pydanny/cookiecutter-django/issues/39

**Live reloading and Sass CSS compilation**

If you'd like to take advantage of live reloading and Sass / Compass CSS compilation you can do so with the included Grunt task.

Make sure that nodejs_ is installed. Then in the project root run::

    $ npm install grunt

.. _nodejs: http://nodejs.org/download/

Now you just need::

    $ grunt serve

The base app will now run as it would with the usual ``manage.py runserver`` but with live reloading and Sass compilation enabled.

To get live reloading to work you'll probably need to install an `appropriate browser extension`_

.. _appropriate browser extension: http://feedback.livereload.com/knowledgebase/articles/86242-how-do-i-install-and-use-the-browser-extensions-

It's time to write the code!!!


Deployment
------------

It is possible to deploy to Heroku or to your own server by using Dokku, an open source Heroku clone. 

Heroku
^^^^^^

Run these commands to deploy the project to Heroku:

.. code-block:: bash

    heroku create --buildpack https://github.com/heroku/heroku-buildpack-python
    heroku addons:add heroku-postgresql:dev
    heroku addons:add pgbackups:auto-month
    heroku addons:add sendgrid:starter
    heroku addons:add memcachier:dev
    heroku pg:promote DATABASE_URL
    heroku config:set DJANGO_CONFIGURATION=Production
    heroku config:set DJANGO_SECRET_KEY=RANDOM_SECRET_KEY_HERE
    heroku config:set DJANGO_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=YOUR_AWS_ID_HERE
    heroku config:set DJANGO_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=YOUR_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY_HERE
    heroku config:set DJANGO_AWS_STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME=YOUR_AWS_S3_BUCKET_NAME_HERE
    git push heroku master
    heroku run python ordo_electro/manage.py migrate
    heroku run python ordo_electro/manage.py createsuperuser
    heroku open

Dokku
^^^^^

You need to make sure you have a server running Dokku with at least 1GB of RAM. Backing services are
added just like in Heroku however you must ensure you have the relevant Dokku plugins installed. 

.. code-block:: bash

    cd /var/lib/dokku/plugins
    git clone https://github.com/rlaneve/dokku-link.git link
    git clone https://github.com/jezdez/dokku-memcached-plugin memcached
    git clone https://github.com/jezdez/dokku-postgres-plugin postgres
    dokku plugins-install

You can specify the buildpack you wish to use by creating a file name .env containing the following.

.. code-block:: bash

    export BUILDPACK_URL=<repository>

You can then deploy by running the following commands.

..  code-block:: bash

    git remote add dokku dokku@yourservername.com:ordo_electro
    git push dokku master
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku memcached:create ordo_electro-memcached
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku memcached:link ordo_electro-memcached ordo_electro
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku postgres:create ordo_electro-postgres
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku postgres:link ordo_electro-postgres ordo_electro
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku config:set ordo_electro DJANGO_CONFIGURATION=Production
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku config:set ordo_electro DJANGO_SECRET_KEY=RANDOM_SECRET_KEY_HERE
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku config:set ordo_electro DJANGO_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=YOUR_AWS_ID_HERE
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku config:set ordo_electro DJANGO_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=YOUR_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY_HERE
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku config:set ordo_electro DJANGO_AWS_STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME=YOUR_AWS_S3_BUCKET_NAME_HERE
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku config:set ordo_electro SENDGRID_USERNAME=YOUR_SENDGRID_USERNAME
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku config:set ordo_electro SENDGRID_PASSWORD=YOUR_SENDGRID_PASSWORD
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku run ordo_electro python ordo_electro/manage.py migrate
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku run ordo_electro python ordo_electro/manage.py createsuperuser

When deploying via Dokku make sure you backup your database in some fashion as it is NOT done automatically.

Commit message:

added mongo into the mix

README.rst, after:

ordo_electro
==============================

Electronic and Social Media Tools for the Ordo


LICENSE: BSD

Settings
------------

ordo_electro relies extensively on environment settings which **will not work with Apache/mod_wsgi setups**. It has been deployed successfully with both Gunicorn/Nginx and even uWSGI/Nginx.

For configuration purposes, the following table maps the 'ordo_electro' environment variables to their Django setting:

======================================= =========================== ============================================== ===========================================
Environment Variable                    Django Setting              Development Default                            Production Default
======================================= =========================== ============================================== ===========================================
DJANGO_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID                AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID           n/a                                            raises error
DJANGO_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY            AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY       n/a                                            raises error
DJANGO_AWS_STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME          AWS_STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME     n/a                                            raises error
DJANGO_CACHES                           CACHES                      locmem                                         memcached
DJANGO_DATABASES                        DATABASES                   See code                                       See code
DJANGO_DEBUG                            DEBUG                       True                                           False
DJANGO_EMAIL_BACKEND                    EMAIL_BACKEND               django.core.mail.backends.console.EmailBackend django.core.mail.backends.smtp.EmailBackend
DJANGO_SECRET_KEY                       SECRET_KEY                  CHANGEME!!!                                    raises error
DJANGO_SECURE_BROWSER_XSS_FILTER        SECURE_BROWSER_XSS_FILTER   n/a                                            True
DJANGO_SECURE_SSL_REDIRECT              SECURE_SSL_REDIRECT         n/a                                            True
DJANGO_SECURE_CONTENT_TYPE_NOSNIFF      SECURE_CONTENT_TYPE_NOSNIFF n/a                                            True
DJANGO_SECURE_FRAME_DENY                SECURE_FRAME_DENY           n/a                                            True
DJANGO_SECURE_HSTS_INCLUDE_SUBDOMAINS   HSTS_INCLUDE_SUBDOMAINS     n/a                                            True
DJANGO_SESSION_COOKIE_HTTPONLY          SESSION_COOKIE_HTTPONLY     n/a                                            True
DJANGO_SESSION_COOKIE_SECURE            SESSION_COOKIE_SECURE       n/a                                            False
======================================= =========================== ============================================== ===========================================

* TODO: Add vendor-added settings in another table

Getting up and running
----------------------

The steps below will get you up and running with a local development environment. We assume you have the following installed:

* pip
* virtualenv
* PostgreSQL
* Memcache
* RabbitMQ
* redis 
* MongoDB

Install memcache if you don't have it

	brew install libmemcached
	brew install httpie # also useful
	brew install rabbitmq # for celery 
	brew install redis # for caching 
	brew install mongodb # saving the bulk stuff for later processing 

I'm using mysql so make sure that you have that running as well. Install it with brew. 

http://blog.joefallon.net/2013/10/install-mysql-on-mac-osx-using-homebrew/

Make sure if you install RabbitMQ with homebrew that you set up the path variables. It is installed in sbin.

https://www.rabbitmq.com/install-homebrew.html

start up RabbitMQ server (mac)

	rabbitmq-server

start the redis server 

	redis-server

start mysql and add the database

	mysql.server start

	CREATE DATABASE ordo_electro
	
Prep and start up MongoDB. You can store the data in another location, but you will need to alter the mongo settings. Ultimately this will be running on a server so this is only needed for dev environment settings.
@see: http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-os-x/ 

	mkdir -p /data/db
	
"""
To have launchd start mongodb at login:
    ln -sfv /usr/local/opt/mongodb/*.plist ~/Library/LaunchAgents
Then to load mongodb now:
    launchctl load ~/Library/LaunchAgents/homebrew.mxcl.mongodb.plist
Or, if you don't want/need launchctl, you can just run:
    mongod --config /usr/local/etc/mongod.conf
"""

or simply run 

	mongod 	

Clone the repo

	mkvirtualenv oe
	git clone https://github.com/solvire/ordo_electro.git
	cd ordo_electro/

Don't start activating things until you have a virtualenv set up. mkvirtualenv should have activated you already.

Update your config to point to the right database:

	vim ordo_electro/config/common.py
	
You may use your own DB settings based on what you will be using. Assumed mysql local root:''

The STATIC_ROOT variables are already set so run: 
	
	python ordo_electro/manage.py collectstatic

Make sure to add your keys for the various apps in:

	/Users/USERNAME/.ordo_electro/settings.ini

	[secrets]
	TWITTER_KEY: abasdflkj
	TWITTER_SECRET: 409avnlkadlfkk
	
Note: these will change and be moved to the DB at some point. 


First make sure to create and activate a virtualenv_, then open a terminal at the project root and install the requirements for local development::

    $ pip install -r requirements/local.txt

.. _virtualenv: http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/

Set up the migrations:

	python ordo_electro/manage.py makemigrations
	python ordo_electro/manage.py migrate

You can now run the ``runserver_plus`` command::

    $ python ordo_electro/manage.py runserver_plus
    
You may check the app from the browser or by CLI

	http://127.0.0.1:8000/
	
	http -a admin:admin http://127.0.0.1:8000/users/
	
	

The base app will run but you'll need to carry out a few steps to make the sign-up and login forms work. These are currently detailed in `issue #39`_.

.. _issue #39: https://github.com/pydanny/cookiecutter-django/issues/39

**Live reloading and Sass CSS compilation**

If you'd like to take advantage of live reloading and Sass / Compass CSS compilation you can do so with the included Grunt task.

Make sure that nodejs_ is installed. Then in the project root run::

    $ npm install grunt

.. _nodejs: http://nodejs.org/download/

Now you just need::

    $ grunt serve

The base app will now run as it would with the usual ``manage.py runserver`` but with live reloading and Sass compilation enabled.

To get live reloading to work you'll probably need to install an `appropriate browser extension`_

.. _appropriate browser extension: http://feedback.livereload.com/knowledgebase/articles/86242-how-do-i-install-and-use-the-browser-extensions-

It's time to write the code!!!


Deployment
------------

It is possible to deploy to Heroku or to your own server by using Dokku, an open source Heroku clone. 

Heroku
^^^^^^

Run these commands to deploy the project to Heroku:

.. code-block:: bash

    heroku create --buildpack https://github.com/heroku/heroku-buildpack-python
    heroku addons:add heroku-postgresql:dev
    heroku addons:add pgbackups:auto-month
    heroku addons:add sendgrid:starter
    heroku addons:add memcachier:dev
    heroku pg:promote DATABASE_URL
    heroku config:set DJANGO_CONFIGURATION=Production
    heroku config:set DJANGO_SECRET_KEY=RANDOM_SECRET_KEY_HERE
    heroku config:set DJANGO_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=YOUR_AWS_ID_HERE
    heroku config:set DJANGO_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=YOUR_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY_HERE
    heroku config:set DJANGO_AWS_STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME=YOUR_AWS_S3_BUCKET_NAME_HERE
    git push heroku master
    heroku run python ordo_electro/manage.py migrate
    heroku run python ordo_electro/manage.py createsuperuser
    heroku open

Dokku
^^^^^

You need to make sure you have a server running Dokku with at least 1GB of RAM. Backing services are
added just like in Heroku however you must ensure you have the relevant Dokku plugins installed. 

.. code-block:: bash

    cd /var/lib/dokku/plugins
    git clone https://github.com/rlaneve/dokku-link.git link
    git clone https://github.com/jezdez/dokku-memcached-plugin memcached
    git clone https://github.com/jezdez/dokku-postgres-plugin postgres
    dokku plugins-install

You can specify the buildpack you wish to use by creating a file name .env containing the following.

.. code-block:: bash

    export BUILDPACK_URL=<repository>

You can then deploy by running the following commands.

..  code-block:: bash

    git remote add dokku dokku@yourservername.com:ordo_electro
    git push dokku master
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku memcached:create ordo_electro-memcached
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku memcached:link ordo_electro-memcached ordo_electro
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku postgres:create ordo_electro-postgres
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku postgres:link ordo_electro-postgres ordo_electro
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku config:set ordo_electro DJANGO_CONFIGURATION=Production
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku config:set ordo_electro DJANGO_SECRET_KEY=RANDOM_SECRET_KEY_HERE
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku config:set ordo_electro DJANGO_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=YOUR_AWS_ID_HERE
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku config:set ordo_electro DJANGO_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=YOUR_AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY_HERE
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku config:set ordo_electro DJANGO_AWS_STORAGE_BUCKET_NAME=YOUR_AWS_S3_BUCKET_NAME_HERE
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku config:set ordo_electro SENDGRID_USERNAME=YOUR_SENDGRID_USERNAME
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku config:set ordo_electro SENDGRID_PASSWORD=YOUR_SENDGRID_PASSWORD
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku run ordo_electro python ordo_electro/manage.py migrate
    ssh -t dokku@yourservername.com dokku run ordo_electro python ordo_electro/manage.py createsuperuser

When deploying via Dokku make sure you backup your database in some fashion as it is NOT done automatically.
